Hey, it's Matt and in this episode I sat
down with Tyler Dink, the CEO of
Beehive. We talked about how Beehive has
scaled to $20 million in annual
recurring revenue, how to use Beehive as
a platform, but we actually spent most
of the time talking about things that
Tyler doesn't really share very often.
We dove into the side hustle he created,
a newsletter called Big Desk Energy. We
talked about how he got his first 10,000
subscribers, 10,000 subscribers, and how
he sent scaled it to over 120,000
newsletter subscribers in two years and
built a six-figure business on the side
through Behive Boost, sponsorships, and
events and masterminds. So, Tyler
revealed all that stuff for us. He also
decided to share his media kit with us.
We'll put a link in the description to
that below. and he uses this media kit
to sell sponsorships for five, six,
seven, $10,000 per newsletter issue. So,
if you want to see Tyler's media kit and
how he makes money from sponsorships,
click the link below. And without
further ado, here is the conversation.
All right, Tyler, welcome to the
podcast. Thanks for joining, man.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> I want to start by going into how you've
built your audience. You kind of have
like a really cool media newsletter side
hustle that you've been working on. I
think those learnings will apply to a
lot of people. And we'll also talk about
Beehive, how you grew it, how people can
use it after that. But let's dive into
that. So, and then you have this
newsletter on the side. Do you call it a
newsletter or you talk about like a mini
media company?
>> I'd call it a newsletter. It it actually
might bring in more revenue than my
full-time job, which is funny. And I
guess like the power of newsletters, but
yeah, my my investor actually just
pinged me an hour ago saying, "Hey, your
most recent BDE issue was incredible. I
forget that you actually have like a
full-time job to do in addition to
this." So, it's definitely one of the
more stressful things I do, just
balancing time and and I'm happy to get
into one, how I've grown it, the
strategy, and like there's a lot of
reasoning behind it.
>> A lot of people listen to this are like,
I run a business or maybe I have a
full-time job and I'm trying to write a
newsletter and build that as a side
hustle or a way to grow my existing
business. How do you actually manage
your time to get out a newsletter every
week and do all the other things you do
with Big Des Energy?
>> Yeah, so I usually spend my weekends
writing it. In an ideal world, I I have
this running list of different topics
that I think are interesting that I'd
like to eventually write about. In an
ideal world, by Thursday, I write like a
rough first draft that I can just keep
going back and iterating. And I spend
most of like Saturday and Sunday
finalizing it. I'd say all in all, it's
probably about a 5 to seven hour a week
initiative to build this newsletter. So,
I've definitely forfeited a lot of
weekends in doing it, but I think the
upside's been been really incredible.
>> And you publish it on Sunday, is that
right?
>> Publish it every Tuesday. every Tuesday.
Okay. So, you have that kind of weekend
going into the coming Tuesday to get it
done. That's actually kind of how I
started my newsletter schedule because I
didn't have time and it was like I'm
going to do it on Saturday and I end up
like writing a draft or no no outline or
title Thursday. Hopefully finish it by
Friday. That can run into Saturday. So,
we have like a similar timeline there.
Tell us about like who you're writing
for. Who's the audience for Big Desk
Energy?
>> Yeah. So I guess it's worth taking a
step back and kind of giving a bit more
context of I guess what I have built in
the content lens. And so when I first
launched Beehive or even before
launching Behive and we it was just a
side project on nights and weekends, I
had maybe 5,000 followers on Twitter,
maybe 10,000 on LinkedIn. So by no means
was I a large content creator in trying
to scale and reach a wider audience of
people who I think would be interested
in what I'm building. One way to view it
is like you have t taken a very
particular niche which is mostly email
newsletters and tangential topics. I
debated going into that and being like
the newsletter guy obviously for beehive
and like what we're building that'd be
very relevant but just widening the
aperture. I figured if I could just
write about building in public whether
it is how we hire how we run meetings
how we scale the company different
milestones different attributes and
traits that we look for in different
employees and hires. It kind of widens
the aperture of people who would be
interested in this content. Not just
people who could be our customers, but
anyone who has a small business or
startup who is interested in the stories
and tactics to actually scale that
company. And so, dating back to 2020 is
when we started building Beehive. And
the thesis was simple. I'm just going to
post as much as I could on LinkedIn and
X about what features we're building,
why it's valuable, why users should
care, which built this kind of like
transparent build-in public persona of
people look to me as who understand
exactly who we are as a business and
what we're prioritizing because I'm very
transparent about all of that. And so I
did that for the first three years while
building the company. And then the
newsletter was really just kind of an
evolution of that. It allows me to go
much deeper than a 280 character tweet
to have a 1500word essay that I send
every week. And so the premise of Big
Desk Energy really is the
behindthe-scenes tactics and stories as
we're building the company with the hope
that it inspires and helps other
founders and entrepreneurs to launch
their own companies. You're writing
about stuff that really only you can
share. I don't know if you thought about
that when you started it, but that's a
good strategy. We even talked about this
on another conversation we had where
it's like AI can't replicate it. other
people could write about how to do email
marketing or how to do best practices
for newsletters, but because like the
newsletter is just building in public
but more in-depth, sharing things that
worked for you, sharing your sharing
your wins and failures, it's a one of
one whereas the the niche strategy can
work for some people. It's worked for
me, but I like the way you approached
it. Yeah, I I think this was actually
the topic of my newsletter today, so
it's very timely, but the but the power
of founder marketing, how I broke it
down was I think we're entering this
world now where distribution is the real
bottleneck in the sense that SEO has
been very professionalized. Paid spend
on Google and Meta is very expensive and
more competitive than ever. And that's
why you're seeing all these companies
invest in their own content marketing
and telling stories. And that's like the
whole rise of like the Wall Street
Journal article that went viral of tech
companies hiring storytellers for
$200,000 plus dollars which got mocked
on X and whatever. It really is just
like the shift from we can't just pay
for distribution and we can't rely on
Google because of AI and everything for
distribution. So storytelling narratives
is just a new lever that a lot of
companies are leaning into. And I think
it follows the thesis that people want
to follow people more so than features
and faceless brands. And so while most
people probably couldn't name or
identify the founders behind Mailchimp
or any of these other like large ESPs
that we compete with, I do think there's
an inherent compet competitive advantage
in being a face of a company that's very
transparent about what's working, what's
not working, what we're prioritizing,
and show that we really do care as a
company. And so yeah, this founder-led
marketing thing I think has helped one
beehive become a larger, more notable
company, not just for the features and
software that we offer, but because of
the story and the narrative and the
persona of I guess me and and the
company and the characters that I built
around it. Um, and then trust is really
like one of the the biggest scarcities
today. And when we've entered this world
of AI, almost anyone can vibe code these
different software platforms. So these
platforms are being launched more
quickly than ever before and content has
been commoditized because anyone with
the access to the internet can use chat
GPT to create all of this content. Then
naturally what value skews to is trust
and that's people that you can relate to
or that you've seen provide value time
and time again. And so I think we're
just seeing this macro shift towards
that given AI and everything else that's
happening. Yeah, this founderled persona
has helped a ton in trying to grow the
company. Absolutely. I want to get into
some of the like nitty-gritty of how
you've grown and monetized the
newsletter, but even your audience in
general. We can talk about that, too.
When did you launch Big Desk Energy? Was
it two years ago?
>> Yeah, it was just about exactly two
years ago. So, January of 2024 was the
first issue.
>> Did you have a um launch plan or tactics
that worked that got you to your like
from zero to a,000 subscribers?
>> Zero to a,000. Yes. But it's not like
the most replicable. I basically
announced it in December and said once I
get a thousand subscribers I will send
my first issue of pig desk energy which
happened like I basically just kept
promoting that every few days on X and
LinkedIn and then launched it in January
when I got my first thousand. The very
gritty tactics that actually got me from
like let's say a,000 to 10,000 beyond
just like creating a weight list was the
night before. So I send every Tuesday so
every Monday I would preview what I'm
going to write about the following day.
I think you've done this really well as
well, but basically showcasing, hey,
this is a topic that I'm writing about.
If you want to be the first to find out
about it, subscribe here. That would
always trickle in a few dozen subscribes
across different platforms every Monday
night. And then Tuesday, I send the
newsletter. I would synthesize what I
just wrote and then post kind of like a
summary that left out some key details.
So, if it was like the five things that
we look for in what we hire a new
employee at Beehive, I would list on
Tuesday three of them and then say for
the last two, click here to sign up to
the newsletter. And then every post,
which is a feature that comes out of the
box on Behive, is just an email gate,
which sounds very simple, but there's
basically a few different ways you can
collect emails on these different posts.
As you're scrolling, everyone is
familiar with like the pop-up box, which
is super annoying, and you can just exit
out and continue reading the content. A
more restrictive way is the email gate,
which basically lets you read like the
first few sentences, but you actually
can't get past it without putting in
your email. So, as I'm promoting the
content that I'm creating, I'm
constantly driving traffic back to the
post that I just sent. And if they're
willing and interested enough to click
on X and LinkedIn, this preview of what
I'm writing, the likelihood that they
also put in their email to read the rest
of the content is very high. And so, all
of my posts have an email gate on it. So
those are like a few of like the early
tactics in terms of like the social hype
the night before the recapping the day
after using an email gate on all the
different posts and then the referral
program something I've always had from
day one and one of the first projects I
ever built at morning brew previous to
building behive was the referral program
and you of course that sit very close to
the newsletter ecosystem like I think
they have become a bit less effective
and a bit sad over time but that was
like the killer growth lever for morning
brew at the time between 2017 in 2020.
And so every newsletter on Behive has
the ability to launch their own referral
program. And so I've had one that has
led to a few thousand subscribers as
well.
>> Yeah. And even if it's I mean that's a
lot for a lot of people, but for you out
of uh how many subscribers is now?
80,000 100,000 plus on your newsletter.
>> Like 120.
>> Yeah. And it's like it's passive
automated really high quality
subscribers. So even if it's 2,000 out
of 100,000 or 2% of your list, no matter
how big the list size, it's, you know,
automated free growth that is like share
your newsletter of other people, those
signups are very monetizable and very
engaged. But I love that. That's super
actionable. I haven't I can't think of
anybody else who I've seen who's done
the weight list. I love the weight list
idea. And not everybody's going to be
able to do that. Or maybe it's 100
instead of a thousand, right? But more
people should do that for sure. just see
if there's demand out there or if
there's not like tweak the topic or idea
of the newsletter or how you talk about
it and keep doing that. And then pre and
post call to actions. There's like three
people who actually do them that I see
and they always work.
>> Yeah. That in the early days I think
every newsletter at scale does paid
acquisition. I think that to like be
able to break through and actually
really scale a newsletter to beyond
5075,000 like you do need to put some
capital into it. But the early days when
I was solely dependent on these
different like gritty tactics like
posting every Monday and Tuesday about
the newsletter uh the referral program
as you mentioned very uh on autopilot.
Recommendations is like another feature
I use at Behive. I probably have grown 5
to 10,000 subscribers through
recommendations through the platform. I
think the big thing that everyone wants
to know is how can I scale my list as
quickly as humanly possible? And I think
anyone who's been around the game long
enough knows that there isn't ever a
single silver bullet to do that. It
really is the compounding effect of
posting the night before gets you a few
dozen. Posting the day of gets you a few
dozen. The recommendations will get you
a few dozen a week. The referral program
will get you an an incremental few
dozen. And then, you know, as you get
better at posting your content and
trying a few of these different
strategies, one hits every now and then.
And then once you add paid later in your
journey, that's really like the
accelerator where the few dozen you were
getting on the recommendations or
referral program turns into a few
hundred at scale. I think that's my
long- winded way of saying there isn't
really a silver bullet that I've seen
unless you go crazy viral and are able
to plug something that is like in that
peak virality moment. Otherwise, it's
really like this steady grind of 10 to
15 strategies that all get you a few
subscribers that start to compound over
time.
>> Absolutely. Yeah. There's there's not
many. It's all a gradual growth
increase. Have you ever done comet to
get post on LinkedIn? I think you're
mostly like your biggest followings on
LinkedIn. You've seen those, right?
Where it's like a little cheesy. You put
your lead.
>> I have one in my back pocket. I I
recorded something last week and I have
the video. I just haven't set up whether
it's like Many Chat or one of those
platforms to like be able to do the
whole like automation stuff. But um
>> yeah, I'm going to give it a try
probably later this week or next week
and see if it works. Yeah, it's hard to
automate on LinkedIn, but that's how I
grow mostly from LinkedIn and I use like
I do that and I send people a DM with a
link to a beehive email gated page. I
don't even set up like a dedicated
landing page and that crushes it and I
also do the same thing that you're doing
pre-called to actions, post call to
actions.
>> Yeah. I mean, another thing that I do
which is is fairly gritty grit of like
offset some of the grit by hiring
someone to help me do this. But as part
of onboarding, users give us their or
typically users will upload their social
channels. And me trying to be this
public CEO that really engages with our
users, which I think is like our core
competitive advantage is one that I am a
user and two that I'm constantly
speaking to our users. So I have a
really good finger on the pulse of what
features we should be building. One way
that I do that is I collect everyone's X
and LinkedIn and I connect with them.
And so I have a VA that sends a LinkedIn
request, which I've maxed out now, but
an X request to follow every single new
user on the platform. And then I also
have them send a note to sign up to my
newsletter. The hope is from the user
perspective, they're like, "Wow, that's
really cool that the CEO of this company
that I just signed up for cares enough
to connect with me on social." So it's
kind of like a growth hack for the
platform. And then I try to go one step
further because my newsletter is all
about building in public and sharing
what we're building at Beehive. If I can
get them to click on the link and sign
up, now I just have that much deeper of
a relationship with them where they're
now receiving my weekly newsletter and
they're more bought into the vision of
what we're building and have a deeper
connection with me personally, which
ideally leads to like more engaged
readers on the newsletter front, but a
more loyal user hopefully on the beehive
front.
>> I love that. People are going to
definitely need to use that. And also it
could be done the other way around. Not
everybody has you know a product but
like someone joins your newsletter. A
lot of times from the email address you
can copy and paste into Google or tease
out first name and last name and follow
them connect with them and now you just
have like a deeper relationship and
maybe you send a DM from a virtual
assistant about like thanks for joining
my newsletter and you just have another
means of connection and you're just more
memorable. So when you do show up in the
inbox you're more likely to get opened
and so on and so forth. And it doesn't
obviously you don't have to have your
own software platform to be able to like
look at who's uploading social as you're
posting content on X and LinkedIn.
Naturally people have followers trickle
in. There's like a bunch of different
integrations you can set up where those
followers load into a Google sheet which
is what I do. I just share the Google
sheet with a VA and then have them send
a DM to all of these people. And I think
it's like again that probably gets me 15
to 25 new subscribers per week but I've
been doing it for 100 so a week. So,
it's like a few thousand at this point.
And that kind of starts to compound with
the 10 other things that I'm doing for
my newsletter.
>> Yeah. And I think just being that much
more memorable and making people feel
like you care because even though you're
not doing it manually, like you still
care enough to set this up and pay
people to do it and like you follow when
they when they send you messages like
you're actually responding to them.
>> I'm I'm like not super active on
Instagram. I'm still like old school on
Instagram where I post like one photo
every like 3 months essentially. But
those who have leaned more into
Instagram and like reals obviously now
that it's more algorithm dri driven and
people are routinely posting videos and
using Instagram as kind of a growth
channel which I haven't done. There's a
lot of automations you can set up with
like Manyhat and a few of these other
platforms where every time you get a new
follower it'll automatically send them
basically the same thing but you can you
can set it up to send them a DM asking
them to do whatever or sign up to your
newsletter. Apparently that's like a
massive growth lever that a lot of
people I know are using. I just haven't
taken the plunge in creating like video
content for Instagram.
>> Yeah, it's preion for a lot of our
clients that exact thing and the
LinkedIn thing, but just in a different
format. It's not as automated, too. I
want to get into paid growth a little
bit because it's like, you know, you
kind of talked about the strategies that
got you to your first 10K. I want to
talk about how you got to, you know,
50K, 100K, and know a lot of that's
paid, of course, just naturally on
that's how growth works. Uh, but before
we do, referral programs. You kind of
wrote like the go-to blog post on
referral programs over 5 years ago,
right? That my first ever building in
public moment, I think.
>> Yeah. And like they've become kind of
opened people up to, oh, this is
actually a thing. It works. Like
introduce people to it. Now it's like
more commonplace and more understood and
maybe less effective. And I also think
it's not necessarily less effective.
It's just that you have to create really
valuable content so people are willing
to share it and not everybody can do
that or is able to do that yet. And then
also not every newsletter is super
sharable. Anyways, what's worked for you
as far as referral programs? Like what
rewards, how do you promote it, etc.?
>> Yeah. So I have two rewards now. My
whole newsletter is me building in
public. And so you would assume that my
typical reader is someone who is a
startup founder, early startup employee,
owns a small medium-sized business, but
cares about building their company and
probably skews more on like the startup
venturebacked side of the world. My
whole thesis is being overly transparent
and building in public without editing
and and holding back things. What I have
as my first reward is by sharing a
single your link with just a single
person, you receive the unedited series
B deck that we use to raise $33 million.
And it's like one of those things in
Silicon Valley and just startups in
general is a lot of founders are very
protective and don't share their actual
like decks or how they raise capital
because it's talks about your long-term
vision, your strategy, your competitors
and and a bunch of other things I think
a lot of people like to keep close to
the chest. And again, that's like my
advantage is I am more than willing to
be transparent and share that. And so I
think that's a very unique reward as in
like there it's again going back to your
point, it's one of one like no one else
can really offer that unless they
download it and use mine. But for the
most part like it's it's authentic and
comes from me. And so like it's it's our
series B deck that we raise 30 million
plus from. And then the second reward is
I set up a drop shipping site using
fourth wall which we integrate directly
with and they basically just do merch at
scale. And obviously drop shipping is
like I don't have any actual inventory,
but I've built different designs for
different t-shirts and mugs and a few
other things. If you share I think it's
three referrals, you get maybe 20 or 25%
off anything in the store. And then for
me as the operator, that's free because
I've done the math. If you take 20% off
anything in the store, I still like
break even on that. So it's cost me
nothing. You get discounted goods from
the store. And like the hope is that
people who actually want to purchase
that are fans of the Big Desk Energy
brand. Again, not for everyone. Um, but
if you've liked the content and like the
building in public persona or just the
name Big Desk Energy, I actually have
great merch that I spent a weekend
designing and you can get it for 20%
off. But I think the big takeaway from
both of those is that neither of them
cost me anything. And so when you think
back to the morning brew referral
program that works so well, the cheat
code for that referral program is like
yes, we had hats and mugs and t-shirts
and sweatshirts, but the first like 10
referrals were totally free for us. I
think at three referrals, we added you
to an exclusive newsletter. And the
thinking was very straightforward,
right? It's if you love Morning Brew and
you're signing up to be up to date on
current events and you read it Monday
through Friday, you're also probably
someone who would love an extra edition
to get ahead on your week that you
receive on Sunday. So that cost us zero
outside of like, you know, the salary of
the person who was already on salary
anyway. So it cost zero for someone to
join that list. At 5, I think we sent
stickers, which cost I think at scale
may maybe a few pennies to ship them
out. And then at 10 it was access to
this Facebook group for our exclusive
insider group. And so to get the 10
referrals it cost us I think when you
average it out per referral maybe like 2
cents which was like the stickers and
shipping. And so the key there is like
yeah there was flashier t-shirts and
mugs and hats. But you didn't act we
didn't actually have to like pay for
that until you got to like 2550 100
referrals. At that point, if someone's
taking their time to refer a hundred
readers, to spend $15 on like a hat and
t-shirt for them to bring in that much
growth was 100% worth it. The through
line to both of those is I don't pay
anything for my referral program. And
Morning Brew barely paid anything for
their first 10 to 15 referrals. I think
a lot of people think referral program
and they start thinking swag, which then
makes you customer service to have to
order swag and then ship swag and then
deal when it doesn't show up in the mail
to whoever you're sending it to. So, I
think that's kind of the cheat code.
>> Oh, yeah. you're doing it perfectly, you
know, in one like a lot of times people
will share it to get one but like they
share it in Slack and they get three.
That's the best way to do is like your
best digital thing which you did your
your deck for one referral like that's
the best way to start and you can always
add more to it later. Maybe this is like
a funny tangent because I used to work
at the hustle which we were like morning
we're competitors back then kind of and
I managed the referral program there. I
think we both had like if you refer a
thousand people you like get flown out
to the office. What was morning brew was
a thousand things.
>> Yeah. At a thousand referrals, we would
buy you a flight to New York City, I
think, put you in a hotel, and we had a
a relationship with the New York Stock
Exchange. And so, you would actually get
to go to the stock exchange with a few
employees and then hang out in the
office all day. Then, we typically did
like a happy hour of some sort. I think
in total, we probably flew 10 people out
over the course of like two years.
>> That's cool. I think that was I think by
the time I got to the hustle, they had
changed that reward, but it must have
only been a handful of people. But it is
all it kind of goes to the point that
like you the one to 10 things especially
one to three are key. If I remember the
data like we only had like three or four
people ever cross 500 or 100 referrals
but you're getting thousands of people
to share it with one or two friends.
That's kind of how the math worked out
for the hustle and probably how it was
for most people who who did these
referral programs.
>> Yeah. I think if you can think of the
paral law of like if you could imagine
your 10 biggest super fans like how far
would they go to do something and in
this case referrals to win something
else like for you with the event that
you run every year right like maybe 100
or 500 referrals get you like a free VIP
ticket to the event or something and it
could just be their time we just
launched digital products the other week
and so I've just been experimenting with
launching different products for the
sake of getting familiar with how to do
it on the platform and I launched like a
coaching session which which I just
priced at $1,000 an hour just to see if
anyone would be interested in like a
startup coaching session. It's been live
for a week, no bites yet. But like it's
one of those things that I think like
would someone share 50 to 100 times for
like an hour coaching session depending
on who they are and like what their
goals are maybe worth experimenting
with. That worked well for us at the
hustle. We gave away some time with Sam
Power and I've seen other newsletters do
too. That's that's cheap for coaching
with you. I think you're going to get a
lot more of those soon. I feel like you
haven't promoted that much. I don't want
to make this whole podcast about paid
ads and like these people like we've
talked about that they can go to like
Facebook ad library, look at your name,
look at your newsletter and see like
your ads and see your strategy. But that
sounds like that's been one of the key
scaling strategies to get you from 10K
to was it 100k now?
>> About 120 today.
>> 100. Awesome. So is that accurate just
to give people context?
>> Yeah, I'd say all of the things like the
gritty things that I have already
mentioned were very early days and still
continue to this day. So, I still try to
post and promote before and after. I
still have a VA going and DMing
everyone. I still use the recommendation
system. I still use the referral
program. But the big two things were
probably around paid. Paid being one
bucket is paid acquisition from
Instagram, Facebook, not really much
Google, but mostly Instagram and
Facebook. I also haven't experimented a
ton with X. Um, but I have seen people
have success with X. Curious your
thoughts. And then the other one is
boost which is basically paid
recommendations within the beehive
network. And so probably put in maybe
100k all time into boost. Granted that's
amvertised over the course of two years.
So you can not going to do public math
but like what four to 5,000 a month. So
we have this network of 50,000 active
publishers within the beehive network.
Boost allows me to set my own price. So
I think it's like a $150 or $2 per lead.
People apply to my newsletter saying
that they want to promote it and then
whenever these newsletters send me leads
through their sign up form, I pay them a
$150 or two. Boosts kind of get
overlooked a lot, especially for growth.
And I like boost for growth because with
Beehive, you can identify like who do
you want to boost you and you can reject
people that aren't a good fit. That's
one thing that's different than a lot of
platforms is like you can pick and
choose who's going to recommend you and
a lot of that improves your quality
drastically because like you know what
type of newsletters have the audience
that you want and who doesn't. Of course
you can set your price your budget. You
can also set location too like if you
only want subscribers from US can you
only pay for US I think.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And so like I guess
in contrast to like paying for Instagram
ads, like you have a target acquisition
cost, call it $2, but it varies
depending on the performance of the
creative, uh, competition, seasonality,
like a bunch of other things that lead
to whether or not you're actually paying
$2. I think the benefit of Boost is you
say that you want to pay $2 and that's
the maximum you will ever pay per
qualified subscriber. We put a ton and
arguably too much time into this
verification mechanism where it's almost
like a money back guarantee where if the
subscriber that someone sends you
doesn't actually engage or open your
newsletters, you have the setting where
they either just stay on the list but
you don't pay for them or they drop off
because they're a lower quality
subscriber to keep the list clean. And
so we put a lot of time into this
verification system. And we also have
like anti-PAM and security mechanisms
that are always identifying. Obviously,
we're a global platform. There are
plenty of places where people would love
to get paid $2 per email submission. And
so we have tons of alerts set up to be
able to monitor and see when there is
fraud in the system to prevent that. So
I think those are the pros of Boost and
it works really well. Where I'd say the
cons are is like we've almost
overindexed on pretending that everyone
is a growth manager. When we built this,
I imagined myself back when I was
leading growth at Morning Brew where I'm
like locked into the platform whether
it's like Meta or Google or like in this
case like a co-registration network and
like every day I'm spending time
monitoring which publishers are sending
me the highest quality leads. Truth is
most newsletter operators don't have the
time to do that or don't even think like
that. And so I actually think we built
way too sophisticated of a growth suite
for boost. It's actually one of our big
projects that we are launching hopefully
in the next like two months. a much much
more simpler handsoff like we know
what's going to work best. We will feed
you the data that you need to know, but
like we will automate a lot of this and
and try to optimize your spend
accordingly rather than like building it
for like a growth manager. And I think
we'll see a lot of success with that new
framing.
>> Yeah, I think that helps. You do kind of
have to like set a calendar reminder to
look at it and optimize it maybe on a
bi-weekly basis. I know a lot of us like
marketing nerds like look at stuff every
day, but you don't need to optimize
boost that much. I like simplicity. For
us, I do like having the ability to just
pick and choose who you want to boost.
>> And one thing that we've we've
overindexed in quite a bit is there's a
lot of transparency in the platform. And
so, let's say I have my offer for $2 per
lead, and I get 100 applications. Of
those applications, you can see their
average open rate, average engagement,
the location, whether they're US,
Canada, UK, like where their subscribers
are based, the type of content they're
creating. You can see their most recent
post. So, there's a lot of transparency.
Like if you're going to basically do
this handshake deal to pay someone to
drive you subscribers, I think you
should be able to understand the
quality, the types of content they're
creating, who their audience is before
engaging in that type of business
transaction. So we do show a lot of
transparent data there which has helped
a ton. You can do like auto accept rules
where as applications file in if it
meets certain criteria, you don't
actually have to approve it. So high
open rate US-based that writes about
XYZ. That being said, like yeah, it's a
lot of managing and I think it depends
on like do do most of our writers and
content creators want to be growth
managers or would they like to grow
faster and they're willing to put in a
bit of money behind it, but they don't
actually want to do the management of
all of the levers on like a day-to-day
basis. And so I think we we overindex
for the former and are now trying to
serve the latter.
>> You spent a good amount growing Big Desk
Energy. How do you monetize and get that
money back? And also if you can share
like are you thinking about do you want
to have a profit margin every month?
Were you like break even at first and
then how do you think about that as
well?
>> Yeah. So I'll start with the first
question. I I basically monetize in
three different ways. One is just the
flip side of boost. So I boost other
newsletters in the ecosystem. I get paid
between $150 and $3 for everyone I'm
sending. So Boost is a two-sided
marketplace. I'd say overall that
probably is less than 5% of my revenue
through the newsletter. I I'm not as
active as I should, but boost is one
way. The second one is paid
advertisements and sponsors. So, I've
used the Behive ad network before and
that ranges from a few dollars CPC to a
few dollars CPM. I've done that to
backfill inventory plenty of times. Um,
but I also sell direct and so I have my
own media kit of which I use Beehive
Surveys to collect information about who
my audience is. So, I know the breakdown
of like male to female, I know average
age, I know interest, I know profession.
So I have a lot of firstparty and zero
party data on my subscribers that
they've given me through the survey form
which I collect when people sign up and
then I have an automation to collect
additional information when when you can
set up a survey in Beehive to be a
postsubscribe survey. And so every time
someone signs up to my newsletter
they're taken to a page to submit a
survey where I ask about five questions
which the entire purpose of that survey
is so I can sell advertising because I
have a better sense of who my audience
is. I've also set up an automation which
is triggered when someone signs up and
it basically checks three days later did
they submit that survey because if they
didn't that's valuable information that
I did not collect from them. So I
actually send an automated email a few
days later nudging them to submit their
survey and that has actually like a
crazy high completion rate. I think of
my 120,000 subs about 30 to 40,000 of
them have submitted the survey. crazy
high percentage because of both the post
subscribe survey and how I positioned it
and the follow-up automated email.
>> Yeah. And I I bet just to add, it's
probably a higher percent of people who
sign up via a form. Like we have a lot
of people who sign up via boost and
they're not going to see that survey
because they're signing up for another
newsletter as well. Surveys are really
important. We could spend a lot of time
on them. Honestly, and I'm with my Bive
survey, I'm getting like 87 to 90%
completion rate after sign up. Yeah, I'm
I'm happy if you I don't know if you
want to do like a lead magnet or include
it in the show notes, but I'm happy to
link out to my media kit which I've
created from the survey data. So, I
think that's important to get across the
audience. It is I need to sell
advertising which is my primary way of
monetizing the newsletter. The first
question every brand is going to ask is
like who's your audience? Like who am I
actually paying to get in front of? And
while I have data on who's clicky and
engaging and I can make a hypothesis,
it's startup founders who are interested
in whatever if you just ask them and
collect the correct data, it's so much
easier to package who your audience is
and sell that advertisement. It's a
longwinded way. Yeah. Long-winded way of
saying I have collected this data. I
have a media kit and I go out and market
and I sell advertising to brands whether
it's HubSpot or Vanta or Adio. I'm just
giving all my my uh sponsors a shout out
here. But yeah, those are like most of
like B2B type software platforms. And I
think it's also important for newsletter
operators to understand like if they are
going to monetize with sponsors, who's
like the right sponsor where it makes
sense for them to pay a large sum of
money to get in front of that audience.
And the reason why I bring that up is
like HubSpot for example can start at
$30,000 per year. And if I do have these
$120,000 subscribers who are startup
founders, HubSpot might pay me5
to $7,000 per sponsorship and they only
need one person to sign up to like a
HubSpot enterprise plan and they have
crazy rorowaz. And so I think that's
important in the sense that a lot of
people think more consumer platforms
like like Spotify would never make sense
to sponsor my newsletter for signing up
for 12 to$14 monthly plan because it
would need hundreds of people to
convert. But HubSpot needs one. And so I
think that is also important when you're
positioning your newsletter and thinking
about monetization to understand who
your audience is and who are the brands
that would ideally like to get in front
of that audience.
>> Yeah. I think a lot of people don't
realize that brands, not every brand,
but a lot of especially more
professional B2B brands, they don't care
too much about your total subscriber
count. They want to see your total
audience size engagement and then your
data that shows them 35% of the audience
is this, 10% is that. And if you collect
that immediately afterwards, like you
should a post signup survey for their
beehive, it makes it very easy to do
this. And uh this isn't just Tyler's
best practice. Like if you look at all
the most successful B2B media companies,
they all use posts signup surveys
immediately after you submit your email
because this data is so important. And
we won't go into like you can also send
email automations or email broadcast
based off of the survey responses too.
>> Yeah. And the last thing I'd say in
terms of monetization is like what you
know you mentioned B2B. I'm not like a
B2B publisher per se, but events are
something that's like really
interesting. And so I think when most
people think of paid media, it is
sponsorship and it is paid
subscriptions. And I don't have a paid
subscription for my newsletter, but
people often overlook what I consider is
like the more creative ways that you can
extract revenue from your audience. And
so because I am building in public as a
startup founder and have attracted a lot
of other startup founders to read the
newsletter, I launched this mastermind
basically like a founder mastermind that
I host in Costa Rica. It's $10,000 per
person. We host about 7 to eight people.
And by we, I mean me. I've done it like
all myself. I've done four of them and
the fifth one's coming up in a few
weeks. But it's $70,000 in revenue.
Obviously there's costs. I rent like a
big house. We get a boat. There's like a
chef. So, like there's a lot of costs
that add up, but it's one something I
actually genuinely enjoy doing. I've met
25 to 30 incredible founders that I have
like this tight-knit network that I've
built on Slack. It's a great experience
to learn and connect with other people.
And then as far as like revenue, it's
probably 50 60% revenue profit margins
on these events. And so, I think it's
just like getting outside of the box and
thinking what value can you provide
these content creators. I I think what
got me to think about that is there was
like a surfer YouTuber who was trying to
figure out how to monetize and I think
everyone at the table at the time was
talking about run more ads, find a brand
sponsor that you can promote in your
videos and he ended up landing on doing
a surf school once a year and it made
far more money than paid ads would have
ever made him. And so I think it's just
like the thinking outside the box and
like the IRL component. Doesn't have to
be IRL, could be totally remote, but I
think there's like a lot of
opportunities to monetize audiences once
you can capture their attention.
>> Yeah, I love this. I wanted to talk
about this like you kind of explained a
little bit of my questions because it's
it's not that complicated what you do
and I'm surprised more like people do
these types of masterminds in a similar
format but not a lot of people I don't
see this done a lot and so like you
promote it a lot you build a weight list
for it you sell it for 10k well what
goes through the process like you
promote it in your newsletter on social
people can go and see your social or
newsletter issues to kind of see
examples of that you sent people to like
an application page right
>> so I created a survey in Beehive that
basically collects their name their
social handles a bit about their
business. Other things I kind of want to
know if I'm going to spend 5 days with
them cuz the funny part about it is like
I don't I've never done phone screens or
like interviews or anything. It's really
based off this form where I can kind of
judge whether they are an impressive
founder who I think could provide value
to the group that I'd want to spend out
spend time with in Costa Rica for 5
days. And so just some qualifying
questions around the size of their
business, what they're trying to get out
of the experience, what value they think
they could provide and teach other
founders in the group. And you'd be
surprised how much information you can
get from that in terms of like this is
like high value person that you want to
be in this like eight person group. Um
but yeah, I basically created a survey
form on Beehive that's hosted on my
website. I plug it in the newsletter
probably 2 to 3 months prior to the
event. I probably get between 15 to 40
applicants every time. Um I'll post it
on social as well and then kind of just
go through and narrow it down and
organize it from there. I think
everyone's always pretty surprised that
I actually do the organizing. Like I
book the house, I book the chef, I
coordinate the shuttles to pick everyone
up from the airport. I do I do a very
specific thing and a lot of very
specific things at Behive. Anytime I get
the opportunity to do and use different
parts of my brain, whether it's like
event planning and coordination or
whatever, I'm happy to do it and it's
it's worked really well.
>> And are you manually approving people,
I'm assuming, and then you send them
like an approval email to where they can
purchase?
>> Shoot them a cold email. Make sure that
they're on board. Make sure they're okay
with the pricing. Make sure they're
available for the dates. give them
context to who else is like in this
cohort and then accept the wires,
coordinate into like a Slack group and
then kind of organize the trip from
there.
>> That's cool. And I think you reveal
pricing up front like before
application.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I make it pretty clear.
>> Yeah. Which I like for this you want to
be surprised by that. Like it's it's a
mastermind of seven people or eight
people. It's going to be expensive. And
this is a good like event that I mean
it's not easy but it's this is not a
conference. One person can organize it.
It's not rocket science. You have
shuttles. Everybody has to have
shuttles. You can have a chef. You can
have everything else and cut out some
complexity if you want to. But yeah,
>> I think eventually do one of these soon.
>> What I think is interesting too is like
I think a lot of entrepreneurs and
people immediately go to like how much
money can I make from this and how big
can this thing be? And so I think the
first few I hosted some of the founders
were like you could easily get a
conference and do 50 to 100 people make
this so much bigger multi-day event. the
small eightp person group of like
actually being able to sit around a
dinner table and hang out with people
for four straight days, go surfing with
them, we get like a boat, we do a lot of
these different strategy sessions. You
basically leave with like a really great
understanding of who all eight of these
people are. And I much prefer that from
like a a personal and taste preference
than some big conference for me being
the one hosting it, right? That that's
where I guess like my my taste changes.
>> As a host, it's it definitely is a lot
more fun. Did you say you do two or
three per year? I forgot what you said.
Uh, it's slowing down. As the business
has grown, it's it's harder and harder
to carve out the time, but I've done
four historically and I have a fifth
coming up this week and this is what
it's been two years since I launched the
newsletter. So, I'd say like every 5
months.
>> Yeah. And as you, you know, if someone
wanted to implement a strategy like
this, like as you promote these and
build the weight list, if you ever
wanted to do a bigger event later, you
now have this weight list of people who
wanted to attend your previous events
and also you have past customers who you
can launch a bigger event to. That's
kind of like the classic event strategy.
And and I think what is important is
like the hustle and morning brew and
this scam kind of normalized this like
hypers scale newsletter where you sell a
sponsorship to for $50,000 because you
have 5 million readers. The power of
niches which you know very well if you
can get a uh ticket cost of $10,000 to
an event or a whatever you're selling
like as the cost of these goods increase
like you actually need a smaller subset
of really engaged people to be willing
to purchase these. you have 120,000
readers. I only need eight people to
sign up for this to be able to have a
60% profit margin on these events. And
so I do think there's a lot of value in
serving a very particular audience and
doing it really well. And if we start
chatting about like my big goals for
like beehive and what we're building
like the way that I view newsletters as
like the ultimate top of funnel and how
can we as a platform build more
functionality and more flexibility where
you can engage your audience many layers
deeper and be unopinionated that. So
whether it is digital products, paid
subscriptions, live events, courses,
community, like what are the different
ways that you can serve your audience
and extract more revenue so you can
continue to invest in your content. And
I think that's what really excites me.
>> Yeah. And there's no oneizefits-all.
It's more about matching the right
product to your audience versus
everybody doing the same thing,
everybody doing sponsorships or
everybody even selling digital products.
Events aren't good for everybody either,
but they're great for some people. I
don't know if we'll have time to cover
this statement. Maybe we'll do something
later where it's like we dive into like
all the different business models and
help people kind of match what's the
best path for them and like how they do
that with Beehive because I think that's
what people are missing. They just don't
understand the possibilities. They think
sponsorship course digital product their
mind isn't they haven't seen enough
examples outside of stuff like that I
feel.
>> Yeah. And I think that's where we really
differ from I think a lot of the
competitors in the space. When you think
of like the broader creator economy,
Patreon's been around for a while. It
was historically pledging to support
artists and creators that you like and
paid podcasts initially and they were
pretty opinionated about that. Substack
launched and and notoriously said that
they would never had have advertising on
their platform and were very opinionated
of like the proper way to monetize their
content in 2022 is paid subscriptions
and that's really what we want to
support. But they actually like for a
long time discouraged any sort of
advertising going on in the newsletters.
I think they've softened that quite a
bit recently. And where I think those
platforms have always been pretty
opinionated, we've taken the complete
opposite approach of I just want to
build tools and infrastructure where our
users can have success. And whether it
is digital products or paid
subscriptions or advertising or
co-registration like boost or community
or live events like we really want to be
the tools and infrastructure to say that
every content creator and operator are
very different from each other and we
don't benefit from one more than the
other but we benefit from all of them
having the flexibility to launch what
they want. And so I think that's where
we've really shined recently.
>> Yeah, I love that about Behive because
we do things that I don't think behive
have ever thought about when they first
launched. when you first launched it.
But like we do virtual events and
webinars that we promote through
beehive. We do live events and
conferences like New Media Summit. I do
courses and cohorts agency and like done
some sponsorships too. But um I think
that's what people need is like there's
no one sizefits-all. Yeah. I just can't
imagine being on a platform where it's
like you have like the only way you can
really make it work is if you have a $10
a month paid newsletter because
everybody else has one too. It's like
that's just kind of crazy to me. And I
think more people are seeing that too.
And I think as much as we value product
velocity and ship tons of updated
products and think we have a very
expansive suite, we also are aware that
we can't launch everything. And so we
have APIs and web hooks where you can
connect directly with Slack or Stripe or
Discord or any other thirdparty
platform, which I think is in contrast
to the two other platforms I just
mentioned and a lot of others in the
ecosystem. And so I think that just fits
under the ethos of maximum flexibility
towards whatever. Like if you have a
huge Discord community, we built a
native integration for you to be able to
get your paid subscribers or people who
hit a certain referral milestone to
automatically sync into this Discord
community as like one of many examples.
And so I think the power of the open
internet and being able to plug in with
any third party platform is what
creators should look for in a platform
that they have maximum flexibility.
>> Yeah. Let's um let's shift gears like as
we wrap up. and talk about the the
future of newsletters and media, but
also the future of beehives. I want to
get to that and then ask you if we have
time like a couple rapid fire questions
from our community. Is that cool?
>> Yeah, let's do it.
>> What's the future of Beehive look like
in let's say uh somewhere like not next
year, but like somewhere far enough in
the future where you can still kind of
see out and like what the vision looks
like, what the feature set looks like,
who you're serving. Just how do you
think about that?
>> Yeah. What's funny about that is like I
actually like never really think 3 to 5
years out or even like a year I think is
hard in the sense that I think
everything changes very rapidly in this
industry. I think one of our superpowers
has been able to listen to customer
demands and what they want and also
understand the competitive landscape
that's very dynamic and be very quick to
market things that we think can help our
users. So like I actually typically at
most plan out about six months and so I
do like a half year at a time and I
think how I view at least like 2026
playing out is very similar to what I've
been alluding to I think in my past
answer or two in the sense that how can
we go deeper where the newsletter was
the initial point of top ofunnel you can
reach people directly you own the
audience you own the distribution you
have a list of 100,000 people when you
hit send it reaches 100,000 people and
you've created this behavior and this
habit where your audience looks for your
content content and you can monetize
that with paid subscriptions, with
boosts, with ads um and and events which
is offplatform now. But what are like
the multiple layers deeper beyond just
newsletter that you can grow your
audience, engage your audience and
monetize your audience? We've been
chatting a lot about events, podcasts
come to mind, digital products we
launched a week or two ago and so you
can sell ebooks, courses, templates,
like I mentioned earlier, you can book
time with me directly. So just
additional ways to monetize your
audience. There's different mediums.
You've hinted that you think uh 2026 is
the year of SMS. I'm curious to get your
take if you still believe that, but like
you you can think of other mediums that
fit the ethos of owning your audience
and owning your distribution that we
want to enable our users to experiment
and expand on. And so without giving
away our entire roadmap, I think that
you can imagine a world where we become
even less opinionated on how our content
creators generate revenue and grow,
integrate with more thirdparty
platforms, and go deeper in both mediums
and functionalities that all tie up to
providing more value to your users. And
I think that will become feels a little
vague because I don't want to give away
the exact road map, but I think within
six months it'll become very clear that
what you can do on behive is totally
distinct from what you can do in any
other platform. and us not taking a cut
of revenue and being very creator
friendly, I think positions us for the
place for people to create content
online and have owned audiences.
>> I I like the vision and I I know there's
only so much you can share, but that
gives people the right direction. I'm
sure people will be curious about the
different mediums. You've already done a
lot of podcast integrations and I think
you're doing more of that. Obviously,
email is going to be number one. SMS, we
were chatting about it via email or
something. It's just a tough one and
you've seen all this stuff too. It's
like it's expensive and I was talking to
Matt Pollson under our market beat about
it. Has anybody done SMS like not for
marketing? Have you sent you know
reminders about your newsletter or links
to YouTube videos or something like
that? And he's like it's probably too
expensive to not do it for marketing.
You really have to have every SMS lead
to t lead to revenue whether it's
immediately or within you know a couple
of weeks or months. So I think it's a
great channel as a supplement to email.
It could never be standalone without
email. It's not without its challenges
and differences.
>> Yeah, I think we're still open to
exploring it. We haven't committed to
anything yet, but I think we are again
unopinionated on what we build. We are
more opinionated on like the ethos and
philosophy of helping our users succeed
however we think we can help them
succeed. And so as you Matt and others
kind of discuss and explore SMS, I think
it's an interesting channel for us to
look into without overcommitting to it.
>> Always integrations are always great
too. And I I think a lot of what my kind
of tiny prediction for the future will
be is they'll be more integrated in data
sharing across both. So it's like maybe
you refer one friend through Beehive and
that triggers an SMS message or you open
an email and behive tracks that and that
triggers an SMS message just because it
shows you're like engaging with our
content. Now it's a good time to send
you something else via text. And I think
a platform that either integrates or
does it all in one where you have those
like automated integrations and data
sharing across SMS and email is really
interesting. Not many people are doing
that. People do, but it's not super
common. And so that's kind of just a a
thing I'm excited about to explore in
the future just in general.
>> Yeah. Maybe a curveball because I don't
know if we're actually doing SMS, but it
consider it being considered.
>> Yeah. And really just talking about like
general marketing stuff that I think
more people would do. Let's actually do
the rapid fire questions now. Okay. The
first one is from Stephanie. like how do
you think about the impact of AI? She
asked in in Gmail, especially with
Gemini and Gmail, but just in AI in the
inbox in general and how is Behive
preparing for this or thinking about
helping publishers address it or work
through it in the future?
>> Yeah, so I think there are things we
can't control which is inboxes in Gmail
changing whether it's filtering or
algorithms or how they leverage AI to
extract info from the inbox. Admittedly,
like we are fairly reactive to the
market and the large tech players in
terms of what they are doing there. And
so we're always kind of like heads down
focusing on what the latest trends are,
what they're launching, and how we can
alter our offering to help our users.
More broadly on like AI, a few things.
One, like obviously an incredible tool.
I think the way that we view AI is not,
hey, write me a full newsletter post to
send to this audience and everything's
done for you. I think when you think
about anyone who's had an editor before
knows that the content that is created
after you've had an editor look over
your work is always 10 times better than
without having an editor. But having an
editor is expensive and very few people
have access to that. And so is there a
world where AI is actually the perfect
use case for having this always editor
that's trained on all of your content
that knows what's performed well and who
your audience is to help create better
content. And then I also think there's a
lot of parts of operating a business and
a newsletter that is less sexy and less
fun. Like the boost conversation we were
having is one of like having to
constantly go up update and keep track
of which publishers are performing well
and sending you high quality
subscribers. Same with like cleaning
your list, re-engaging different
subscribers, identifying opportunities
to extract more revenue from different
cohorts. And so is there a lot of like
data and manual work that can be
replaced and augmented with like a smart
AI agent that understands your goals and
can do a lot of that dirty work for you
and present the data that you need to
see to have a better outcome. And so I
think we're constantly evaluating ways
that we can layer in AI into the
platform to make it a better experience
for the user.
>> I think one thing a lot of people are
curious about is we're worried about is
like AI summaries in the inbox. Like
Gemini has a summary. you like click to
summarize and it gives you two or three
bullets. Do you worry about that? Should
people be worried about that? Any
general thoughts on that?
>> I think some people should be worried
about that. I think it depends on the
type of content that you're creating.
For example, like I'll use Morning Brew
as an example. Like I enjoy the act of
reading Morning Brew because I enjoy the
writing. I enjoy the breadth of like the
stories that they uh they have like six
or seven different stories. They have
different commentary for news events and
other things going on in the world. So,
I think a big reason for Morning Brew
success outside of like the growth and
everything is obviously the content is
very engaging and people look forward to
reading it. Is there a subset of
consumers who just want the five
headlines to know what's going on in the
world and no commentary? I think there's
definitely plenty of people who optimize
for like these recaps and and this
aggregated content feed kind of like an
RSS and that's kind of like what these
summaries do. But even going back to
your point around like my newsletter
being like a one-of-a-one content, like
these are anecdotes and tactics and
stories that are 1500 words of like what
I'm doing behind the scenes to build the
company. And so it can't really be
replicated because no one else is in my
seat to be able to do these. And I don't
think a three-s sentence summary could
actually do it justice of like the
different stories and tactics that I'm
sharing. So yeah, I think we'll probably
see some sort of diversion from these
aggregator newsletters who have the five
biggest things that happened in crypto
yesterday and just headlines like those
probably provide less value in the world
of AI, but those that actually have
great writing and commentary and value
to go a bit deeper. I think there's
always going to be a place for that type
of premium content.
>> Yeah, that's that's a really good
thought. I think good curation
definitely isn't going away because
there's just some people are just
amazing at curation. But I think these
affect marketing emails really
negatively. Like I can just click and
see, okay, Sephora 30% off, expires on
Friday. It's like I don't need to read
the marketing email because I just got
the summary, right? Or just someone you
don't like talking to via email. You
just get the summary.
>> Yeah. I I would actually say Advantage
Newsletters for like the quality
newsletters. Like Ben Thompson strategy
is incredible. Like I read every one of
those and it's because I value his
opinion and his expertise and like
there's not an like the AI summary is
meta beat earnings by 5%. And like
that's actually not why I'm reading Ben
Thompson's newsletter. And so I think it
just forces content creators to lean
into what they're best at and how they
can differentiate.
>> Do you think the newsletter marketer
space is going to get saturated at some
point?
>> I'll say no. I think everyone has been
predicting that email has been saturated
and it's the end of email or pick email
since we first raised our seed round in
2021 and we've been proving that
incorrect. And so I think again I don't
think it's overly saturated. I think the
job will continue to change and the
higher quality email marketers and
newsletter providers will figure out
ways to stand out, but yeah, I don't
think we're at a saturation point.
>> Absolutely. Sean had a question about
success leaving the clues. Like you get
a lot of data through the the users of
Beehive and there are some people that
kind of launch, maybe they get to a
couple hundred, a couple thousand
subscribers and then cap off or quit and
then some companies grow super quickly
and monetize super fast. Are there any
types of key traits or patterns you see
between the successful publishers and
creators on your platform versus the
ones that that don't work out?
>> Two, one's like obviously like very
obvious which is like the persistence
and kind of like the Mr. Beast of like
how many people actually create a
hundred straight videos and try to get
better each day and like it is a bit of
a grind going from zero to one. And I
think the people that actually enjoy
what they're doing, enjoy creating
content, and want to get better, have
the persistence to push through and get
over the hump of like that zero to one
stage. I'd say the other factor we've
also alluded to earlier in the
conversation is if you can find a
business model that starts paying you
for a smaller audience up front, it kind
of pulls forward the reward. And so back
in the morning brew days, we used people
used to ask me how big does my
newsletter have to be before I can start
monetizing? And I kind of made up the
number 10,000 is like when a brand would
like maybe look at you depending on the
size of the brand. But below that, most
brands aren't allocating resources or
money to pay for like a 2,000 person
newsletter. The caveat is with the tools
of the Hive, whether it's digital
products or paid subscriptions or you
just have a great audience that
advertisers want to get in front of. I
actually think if you can figure out
ways to reward yourself sooner by having
a very engaged, smaller audience,
obviously the rewards are reinforcing to
keep going.
>> Absolutely. you made like a chat bot,
maybe it was a deli, maybe it was
another tool. We don't need to say the
name of the the tool where like it was
ch trained on your content. Was that
worth doing as far as like was it an ROI
on your time or how much it cost to help
you, you know, grow Beehive or your
newsletter at all?
>> Yeah, so it was deli. Shout out Deli.
I'm a small very small investor so I got
to give him a shout out. I'm always down
to experiment with things. I think I get
a lot of replies that I can't always get
around to and so like launching what I
call Dankbot, which is really just
trained on my content. It was more of
like an experiment of would it provide
value and would people use it.
Admittedly, it has fallen off in terms
of like my priorities to keep up to date
with how many people are using it and
like I'm probably not maximizing it to
the most of my ability, but that's more
of like a me bandwidth thing, but I do
like the thesis of large and I'm I
wouldn't consider myself like a large
content creator, but like larger content
creators who have limited bandwidth. Is
there a way to augment the relationship
with your audience by offering some sort
of like highly trained high quality AI
chatbot? I think we'll see more of that
in the coming years.
>> Awesome. Okay, one final question from
the community. Sarah asked actually,
what are the major differences between
Beehive and a platform like Kit if
someone's considering switching? Whoever
you see as competitors or alternatives.
>> Yeah, I mean they're all the interesting
thing about what we're building is we
compete with a lot of different players.
I think Kit in particular I mean they've
been around for 12 13 years and I'm a
big believer in betting in betting on
the trajectory of the platform and so I
think in terms of like functionality we
offer everything that they offer and
then some. We have the beehive ad
network which we didn't talk a ton about
but we have advertisers like Nike,
Netflix, Roku who sponsor newsletters on
the platform and so that firmly puts us
in the camp of again unopinionated but
trying to do whatever we can to make our
users and creators successful and
bringing in more revenue month over
month. And so whether it is digital
products, whether it's us, we have a
full website builder as well. So you
don't need WordPress or Wix or
Squarespace, but you can build a full
web presence on Beehive. We obviously
have all of the automations. We have
open APIs. We have native integrations.
I'd say surface level platforms, both of
them are are fairly similar. I think
we've been around for four years, and I
think we've shown the trajectory of our
willingness to go the extra mile and
build whatever we can to help augment
the success of our users. And I think
they are a different stage company who
moves much slower and maybe has
different priorities for what they're
trying to accomplish. And I think you
can kind of see that trickle down in how
we engage with users and our ambition to
grow and serve our users the best that
we can.
>> I don't want to make the whole podcast
about this because I hope everybody
succeeds. I'm I'm a huge Beehive fan.
Like the Beehive is the tool that I
built my business on right now. Do you
think that like the feature set the
feature parody is somewhat similar
between Beehive and K? If that's not
accurate, let me know. I have no idea
because I don't track the features.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The directionally correct
I'd say.
>> But like you're saying like trajectory
BI is on is is so much faster and I
think everybody would agree with that is
like the the pace at which you're
shipping and also improving existing
features is crazy and people should
consider where their platform is going
to be a year or two and more from now.
Like that seems to be
>> I think if you're going to
>> thing everyone should look at
>> Yeah. If you're going to build your
business and choose like what horse to
to back in terms of like they have your
data, they are launching things to help
you succeed. I think I'd want to choose
the one that has higher upside and and
greater trajectory. We recently I won't
name names turned off our old like
partner program platform for a new one.
And there's a landscape of a handful of
them that have been around for a decade
and moved very slow and have been
restrictive for us in a lot of areas.
And then there's a few upstarts where if
you just look at the trajectory, they're
shipping a few dozen features every
single week. Their founder is in a Slack
channel with us working through like
integrations. And [clears throat] I
think that in this new AI world where
features and functionality eventually
start to get a bit more commoditized,
it's a lot of like those in between X
factors of the hustle of the team, the
willingness of the co-founders and
founder to go and like roll up their
sleeves and do the dirty work and like
where are they spending time and I'm
spending all my time online engaging
with users and understanding how we can
serve them better. And so I think that
there's something around like these X
factors to consider. People don't really
think about that. Like if you're
building an audience on Instagram or
YouTube, like you you also need to bet
on where to spend your time there. It's
it's no different when you're building
your business on a technology platform
like Beehive.
>> Um that's a good point. But yeah, any my
final thought really is like what I tell
the team is I think our big competitive
advantage is we give a [__] more than
anyone else. And I think you can see
that everything from our sellers will
take calls on weekends. I'm available
24/7. I give my email to everyone. And
so I do think there's like a hustle
factor that I've seen really
differentiate companies who are
exceptional and companies that are okay
and we're there first and I think we are
firmly in the former camp and continuing
and our goal is to be very exceptional.
I think that's like what I would say to
anyone debating us between other
platforms.
>> Yeah. And that's not that's not BS. I've
seen that you have like the technologist
and and the team to that's building
incredible things, but you're also the
final thing I'll mention is like you
have a lot of media creator people at
your company like you have the morning
brewer background. Dan the COO is had a
ton of background with like Puck, the
information, the Telegraph, Air Mail, a
bunch of great media companies and
working in technology too um and for big
platforms like I think Meta and Door
Dash. But he's he's super smart. I got
to
>> know his whole background. You nailed
it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. and he's going to be at our
event. So, I got to talk to him a couple
times and like, damn, this guy's
impressive. And he was I think he really
chased you because he was like an early
investor and then came on board over the
past couple years. So, I've been what
I'm trying to say is I've been impressed
by your team. Not Not just you. You're
very impressive, but the team has been
really fun.
>> I can't I can't do it by myself. So, I'm
glad that we have very impressive team.
>> Yeah. Okay. I think we'll put links to
your behive down below, your newsletter
down below. if we have some type of, you
know, resource that people can can check
out from like Tyler to learn from what
he's doing, I'll put that down below,
too. But Tyler, thanks for doing this.
This is really fun. I think we got to
get into a lot of stuff that people
haven't really heard from you before.
So, it was fun.
>> Yeah. Thanks for having me on. This is
great.